Good afternoon.
Happy World IPv6 Day.
My name is Sam Bushell.
I work on writing code and fixing
bugs on our media frameworks.
And today I'm talking to you about
working with Media in AV Foundation.
The APIs and tools I'm going to
talk about today were introduced
in iOS 4 and some of them were
added in iOS 4.1 and now they're
all brought to Lion in Mac OS X.
They're the same APIs and tools
that we use to build iMovie for iOS
and QuickTime Player 10 for Lion.
And I'm going to do some demos.
The sample code for those
demos is live on the web.
And if you go to the schedule
page for this session,
there's a link to the sample code there.
And I recommend that if you
want to follow along with some
of the code samples I'm going
to go through on the slides,
you can look at the file
called simpleeditor.m for
more details and more context.
So let's look at where
AV Foundation fits in.
AV Foundation is an
Objective-C framework that sits upon
the foundations of the C frameworks,
Core Audio, Core Media, Core Animation,
Core Video, and so forth.
And it's below the level of UIKit.
Which means that we can deliver
the same framework and more
or less the same APIs on iOS.
and Alan Lyon.
So the things I'm telling you about
today are uniform across those.
So I'm going to go through a number of
scenarios today and talk about how you
can use AV Foundation's APIs and tools
to deliver those kinds of features
to your users in your applications.
I'm going to talk about how to
generate a still image from a movie,
how to export a movie to a new file,
How to assemble a movie from
clips from other source movies.
How to add an additional audio.
How to add video
transitions like crossfades.
How to add core animation.
and my colleague Adam Sonnanstine
is going to tell you about how to
extract audio and video data from
movies and how to build a new movie
from your own video and audio data.
But first,
let's talk about some fundamentals
that AV Foundation is based on.
I want to introduce the
framework CoreMedia.
CoreMedia is a C framework
that provides some basic data
types that AV Foundation uses.
The most important one for
our session is called CM Time.
CM Time is a C struct
like CG Size or CG Rect,
and it's a struct type
that defines rational time.
It's counting a number of seconds
as a rational with a 64-bit
numerator and a 32-bit denominator
that we call a time scale.
We have constants for zero,
positive infinity,
negative infinity and so forth.
We have utilities for adding
and subtracting and various
other arithmetical utilities.
We have utilities for
comparing CM time values.
And if you have a start
time and a duration,
you can construct a time range.
And if you have two time ranges,
that's called a mapping.
So, enough of core media,
let's move out and look at AV Foundation.
In yesterday's session,
Simon introduced AV Asset.
AV Asset is what you use in
AV Foundation to represent
a movie that's in a file.
And inside AV Asset,
you can browse and find AV Asset tracks,
each representing the video
and audio tracks in the movie.
To play an AV asset,
you construct an AV player
item from the AV asset and then
you attach it to an AV player.
So let's get into these scenarios.
First one is creating a
still image from a movie.
AV Asset Image Generator is
the class used for doing this.
You build your AV Asset
Image Generator from an asset,
And then you can ask it to generate
images for you by giving an array
of the times you want images at.
Now you need to retain your
image generator until you're
done getting those images.
And you'll notice that
I passed in a handle block.
The handle block is important.
That's how you get the output.
And it's important that you check the
result because it may not succeed.
If it did succeed, then you can go ahead
and use the CG image,
retain it if you need it later.
If for some reason it fails,
you can examine the error
object to find out why.
And it's also possible for you to cancel
outstanding image generation requests,
in which case your handle block
will still be called to say
that this request was cancelled.
Exporting and trimming movies.
You export an AV asset to a new file
using the class AV asset export session.
Whenever you make an
AV asset export session,
you have to specify a preset.
We have presets for different
sizes and bit rates and so forth.
You have to specify the
output URL and the file type.
In this case,
we're generating a QuickTime movie.
Optionally, you can set a time range.
If you don't set a time range,
then we'll export the entire asset.
You can also optionally
modify or add metadata.
And then you kick off the export
asynchronously and provide
another handler block that's
called when it's all done.
Again, the handle block looks a lot
like the one for image generator
and you should examine the
status to see if it completed,
failed or if you cancelled it.
So I'm not going to give a
demo of either of those cases.
They're fairly basic and you can use
the sample code to do that yourself.
I do want to talk about
error handling for a moment.
It's important that you
handle failures gracefully.
AV asset export session
will not overwrite files.
If you try, it will fail.
If you want to overwrite a file,
it's your responsibility
to delete it first.
On iOS,
your application is restricted to a
certain sandbox and AV asset export
session cannot be used to write files
outside your application sandbox.
Also on iOS, the multitasking features of
iOS let the user go off and do
something else while your export
can continue in the background.
And this is a great feature,
but it introduces more situations
where export could fail after a while.
For example,
If the user goes and
starts playback of video,
that might use resources that
you'd been using for your export,
and so that playback could interrupt that
background export and cause it to fail.
But even if your application
is still in the foreground,
export can fail.
For example, an incoming phone call or
FaceTime call can interrupt export.
So let's move along to the next things.
Let's talk about AV composition, which,
along with AV Asset,
are the cornerstones of
editing in AV Foundation.
We've seen how you can use
AV Asset as a source object
representing a single movie,
and then you can use that
AV Asset for playback with
AV Player and AV Player Item,
for image generation with
AV Asset Image Generator,
for export with AV Asset Export Session.
And a little later on,
you'll see how you can use it with
AV Asset Reader to extract audio
and video data out of the asset.
What about the case where you
have several source movies and
you want to put them together?
AV Foundation's tool for doing
this is called AV Composition.
And because AV Composition
is a subclass of AV Asset,
you can use it in the same great
ways that you can use AV Asset.
You can use it for playback,
for image generation, for export,
and for asset reading.
So let's take a demo of cutting
together a bunch of different
clips and playing them together.
Okay, I'm launching AV Edit Demo,
the iPad version.
The first thing you're going to look
at this is to say this is no iMovie.
This is not designed
for users to play with.
This is designed as a programmer's
playground so that people like you
can understand how the APIs work and
explore and experiment with them.
The UI is very close to
the way the API works.
So the first thing I'm going to
do is select the clips that I'm
going to use to edit together.
I have a clip here of a cat
and a clip here of a beach and
the third clip of some flowers.
And you can see that there
are start and end times.
I can set my edits.
I can set the portion of these
clips that I want to use.
I'm going to take in a section
from about 20 seconds of the cat.
Oh, I'm going to take in a section
Oh, the first eight seconds or so
of the beach and then some eight
second portion of the flowers.
That's about that.
And now let's view the player
and see what that looks like.
Okay.
I'll play through this so you
can hear what it looks like.
So what did we just see?
We started with three clips, the cat,
the beach, and the flowers.
And we took segments of each of these
and composed them on the same timeline.
The tool we use for doing
this again is AV Composition.
So what AV Composition does
is it takes segments of assets
and places them on a timeline.
So your AV Composition object contains
a number of AV Composition tracks,
just like AV Asset
contains AV Asset tracks.
And each AV Composition
track contains segments.
And each segment contains information
that defines the source movie,
the video track, and the time range.
Here's the mutable
version of AV Composition,
which is called AV Mutable Composition,
can be edited in a number of different
ways depending on your needs.
There's a family of APIs which edit
across all of the tracks at once,
and there are some other that only
modify a single track at a time.
And you can also modify the
whole segment array directly if
you have your own representation
of how the editing should work.
New in iOS 5 is an optimized batch
version of the single track editing API.
So here's how it looks in the code
that you'd see in simpleeditor.m.
First,
we make a mutable composition object and
then we add composition tracks to it.
Here I'm adding one for video and
I'm taking that video composition
track and adding a segment
of a source asset into it.
Now, it's generally not a safe idea to
modify a composition object while you're
using that same object for playback,
for image generation, for export,
or for media data extraction.
Instead, you want to make a copy and then
you can modify the original.
Here I'm making an immutable copy
of the immutable composition and
creating the player item from that.
Now, if you have a live view of what
your video preview should look
like and you want to change it
sharply and snappily and safely,
you can use the replace current item
with player item API to do that.
All right,
let's move on to the next scenario
of adding additional audio.
Now that I've shown you
what AV Composition is,
you can get a better idea about what
you're seeing in the lower right part.
We have enough space on the iPad version
of AV Edit Demo to draw an illustration,
a visualization of the same objects that
are actually being used for playback.
This is not generated separately.
This is actually generated-- this
artwork is generated from the
objects that are used for playback.
So you can see that
there are three segments.
for the video track and three
segments for the audio track.
And now I'm going to go down
to these extra options here
and add a commentary track.
I'm going to select my audio clip.
And I get to choose when in the
overall composition that audio clip
should start with this slider here.
So I'm going to drag
that to about 11 seconds.
You can see how the
AV composition has been set up.
And now let's play through this and
listen carefully for what you hear.
It's true, when something exceeds your
ability to understand how it works,
it sort of becomes magical.
Scrub back just one more time
and play just a bit just before
he starts to talk and listen
carefully for how it becomes quiet.
It's true, when something exceeds your
ability to understand how it works,
it sort of becomes magical.
So what's happened this time?
So once again, we have our compositions,
audio and video tracks.
And this time,
we're adding an additional audio
track in parallel with the other ones.
Notice that this audio doesn't begin
at the beginning of the movie and
doesn't go all the way to the end.
There are gaps.
These gaps are called empty
edits or empty segments.
The other thing we noticed was
that the audio became quiet just
before Johnny Ives started talking
so that we could hear him clearly.
This technique is called ducking and it's
accomplished in AV Foundation through
the use of audio volume ramps.
Looking at the objects we use,
once again we have our composition
with the old tracks and now the
new track that we're adding.
And AV Audio Mix is the object that we're
using for representing the audio ramps.
It contains a list of audio volume ramps.
An audio volume mix has an array
of input parameters objects.
Each input parameters object adjusts
the volume level of one track.
If a track does not have
an input parameters object,
then it will maintain the default
volume level of full volume.
Here's how you generate them in code.
You create an input parameters object.
And then you set the volume at
times and across time ranges.
Note that in between the volume
times and ranges that you specify,
the volume level continues
at the last value.
So in this case,
I'm setting the volume at time
zero and from time X to time Y,
and that's sufficient to draw
the yellow line on the right.
Once you have your input
parameters for each track,
you collect them up into
an audio mix object.
And then to use that audio mix object,
you set it as a property
on your player item,
your export session,
and there's a special subclass of
AV Asset Reader output that knows how
to deal with multi-track audio mixing,
and you'd set it on that one as well.
Let's move on to some video transitions.
Those cuts are a little bit abrupt,
so let's add some crossfades
to smooth that over.
Now you know what the AV Audio Mix that
you're seeing there is all about.
So now I'm going to go
down to the second option,
Transitions, and turn that on.
See a lot more stuff happening there.
I'll play it again.
Watch the cat as it goes
through the transition period.
It's true, when something exceeds your
ability to understand how it works,
it sort of becomes magical.
So that's what a crossfade looks like.
I can also set it to a push transition
and I can change the length.
It's kind of fun the way
everything moves around.
And I'll just adjust the start time
of this guy to bring it back in.
And let's play this again.
This time we're showing about
a two second push transition.
It's true, when something exceeds your
ability to understand how it works,
it sort of becomes magical.
That's some transitions.
So,
recapping again what we're seeing here.
Once again, we're using AV Composition,
but there's something different.
This time, instead of just cutting from
one segment to the next,
we have transitions.
So we're taking the middle segment of
video and moving it into its own track.
Now you can see that each of
those transition periods is a
period when two video tracks are
being decoded at the same time.
Now, we're also decoding two audio
tracks at the same time,
but that's pretty natural.
When you hear two sounds,
what you hear is the
sum of their waveforms.
So we don't have to do anything
particularly special there.
But for video,
it's important to explicitly
define what the output should look
like in terms of the input videos.
AV Foundation's tool for doing this
is called AV Video Composition.
Not to be confused with AV Composition.
AV Video Composition has
instructions that tell
AV Foundation when to play track A,
when to play track B,
when to play some combination of the two.
So if we take this video
composition and apply it to the
multitrack composition above,
we get something that looks like this.
So AV Video Composition contains an
array of video composition instructions,
each for one period of time.
Each instruction describes the output
video in terms of instruction layers,
layer instructions.
And each layer,
which is associated with the track,
has an opacity and an affine transform.
Now you can apply a ramp to these values,
what we call a tween.
You can tween the opacity to get a
crossfade or you can tween the affine
transform to get a push transition.
Here's how we put them together in code.
First, you make your video
composition instruction object.
You must set a time range
that says what time range that
instruction is going to apply for.
And then you construct layer
instruction objects that represent
the tracks that are being inserted
into that composition instruction.
So here we're making one for track A.
And now we're going to fade out
track A by setting a tween on
the opacity from 1 down to 0.
We then make a second layer instruction
representing track B and we'll leave
that at the default full opacity of 1.0.
And then we set our layer instructions
array to be an array of these layer
instructions from top to bottom.
Once you have all of your instructions,
you assemble them and set them
on a video composition object.
It's critical that the time
ranges do not overlap and the
time ranges may not contain gaps.
There may not be gaps
between the time ranges.
You have to tell the video
composition what frame duration,
which effectively means the frame rate.
Here I'm saying what the frame
duration is 1/30th of a second,
which means we'll
generate a 30/5 animation.
You also have to set the render size,
here we're using 720p.
And for playback,
you can optimize the frame rate
by lowering the rendering scale.
To use AV Video Composition, once again,
just like Audio Mix,
you set it on the player
item for playback,
on the image generator,
the export session, and again,
there's a special subclass of
AV Asset Reader output that knows
how to do video compositions.
A couple of things to watch out for.
Like I said, the time ranges must not
overlap or contain gaps.
Every time range must begin
where the previous one ended.
And they must not be short
of the Navy composition.
They have to fill out the full
duration of the composition.
Now if you know something
about video compression,
you might be thinking, okay,
can I edit anywhere or can
I only edit at keyframes,
at iframes?
Rest assured,
AV Foundation lets you edit at
any frame boundary you want.
How that works is that to
play a video segment that
doesn't begin with a keyframe,
AV Foundation has to go back and decode
frames from the previous keyframe.
This is called catch-up.
As an optimization,
It's possible to use AV Composition
to put alternating segments in
alternating tracks and then use
AV Video Composition to select
which track to play at a given time.
Doing this gives AV Foundation more
time to do the catch-up
decoding in those empty gaps.
Let's go on to the
Core Animation Scenario and
have a look at one more demo.
I'm going to scroll down on
the left to the last option,
which is for a title.
And I'm going to go and type in my title.
Ooh, I can use this thing.
Use my thumbs.
M-A-G-I-C.
Oh, thank you, autocorrect.
All right.
Okay, so let's play this one.
I've added some animation.
It's true, when something exceeds your
ability to understand how it works,
it sort of becomes magical.
didn't say it wouldn't
be cheesy animation.
So let's scroll back here,
and you see that as I go back,
the stars spin anticlockwise,
and you go forward, they go clockwise.
Core animation.
We've taken our AV composition and we've
also added some core animation stuff.
We've added layers that contain the
text and the stars and some animations.
Here's what our layer tree looks like.
We have one parent layer which contains
a layer that contains the text and a
layer that contains the ring of stars.
And we have an animation controlling
Spinning the Ring of Stars and
another animation that fades
everything out after 10 seconds.
If you need a recap on core animation,
there's a session tomorrow.
Let me take a moment to
talk about animation.
Animation is the result of modifying
a property like position over time.
If you've used that Core Animation,
you know what it's like to use
it for real-time animations
of your user interface.
AV Foundation lets you use
the same tools in movies.
The only difference is that
instead of applying in real-time,
the timeline for these animations
is now your movie's timeline.
Let me illustrate how that works.
Your UI view or NS view is going
to contain a layer hierarchy.
Somewhere inside that layer
hierarchy is an AV player layer.
The AV Player layer has a private
layer which contains the video.
Now, that video's timing is special.
Every other layer in this
diagram operates in host time.
Time is counted as the number
of seconds since boot and it's
always monotonically increasing.
The video layer, on the other hand,
runs in movie time.
Its timeline is the number of
seconds since the start of the movie.
And that starts when I start
playback and it stops if I pause.
But I can even rewind it
and make it go backwards,
which real time can't do.
When I add my animation,
the animation needs to
run along movie time,
not real time.
AV Foundation provides
The AV synchronized layer
object to make that happen.
So for playback,
you use AV synchronized layer to
make animation use movie timing.
For export,
it's similar but a little different.
AV Foundation's object is
called AV Video Composition
Core Animation Tool and that
integrates Core Animation as
a processing video stage.
So in this case,
you set up a single parent layer
that contains both your video layer
and the animations you want to do.
For optimized rendering,
it helps to indicate when there's
no core animation artwork to render
for a particular time period.
By setting the enable
post-processing property to no,
you can tell us to skip
unnecessary rendering.
On iOS, core animation use is prohibited
while you're in the background.
If you try,
it'll cause your export to fail.
I need to give you a few hints
about coordination features
that are convenient when you're
working in real-time animation,
but they don't work so well for movies.
First is that if you have an
animation with begin time set to zero,
which is the default,
as soon as you commit it,
its begin time is changed
to the current host time.
That's very convenient
for real-time animations,
but it's not at all useful for movies.
So, you want to use a very small
non-zero number for the begin time,
and if you can't think of
a very small non-zero time,
we have one for you.
Another thing is that
Core Animation automatically collects
and removes animations after it thinks
that they have gone into the past.
That's obviously a useful
idea for real-time animations,
you can never go back.
But with movies you can go back.
So you need to set the
removed on completion property
of the animation to no,
to tell Core Animation to
keep its hands off.
The third thing from Core Automation
is that if you set a property or
change anything about a layer tree,
by default Core Automation will
construct an implicit animation
from the old state to the new state.
And that's set up to
operate in real time.
Generally that's an unwanted thing.
You don't want that to
happen inside your movie.
So you need to surround all of
your changes to the layer tree in
explicit transactions and you need
to set disable actions to yes.
Finally, sometimes you want your
animation to extend past the
end of your AV composition.
And that's okay.
But we need to know how long
playback should end or how
long export should happen.
So you set the playback,
for playback you set the player item,
the forward playback end time,
and for export you need to
set the time range explicitly.
Okay,
so I've gone through these six scenarios.
I'm now going to hand over to Adam,
who's going to tell you about reading
audio data and constructing movies
from your own audio and video data.
Thanks a lot.
All right.
Thank you, Sam.
So up until this point,
we've generally been talking
about pretty high-level use
cases for audiovisual assets,
whether we're taking an entire
asset and exporting it to a new file
with AV Composition -- or sorry,
AV Export Session,
or if we're taking multiple
segments of assets and stitching
them together with AV Composition.
So for the next 25 minutes or so,
we're going to dive down a little
deeper and get our hands dirty and
learn how to read and manipulate
the individual pieces of audio and
video data that make up media assets.
So what are we going to cover?
First, the why and the how.
We're going to go through a few
simple scenarios that show what
you can do with these capabilities.
Then we're going to go into detail
about reading data from existing
assets and doing stuff with it.
And then we're going to talk
about taking media data that
you have -- audio and video data
-- and writing it to new files.
Finally, we're going to talk about some
considerations to keep in mind
whenever you're writing files
that contain audiovisual media.
So say that you have an app
that does simple video editing,
like we have iMovie here,
and you want your users to be able
to have a simple graphical interface
but to be able to do precise edits.
Maybe they want to trim out the
silence at the beginning of the clip.
So it's helpful to them,
if you draw an audio waveform
like iMovie does here.
In order to do that,
you're going to need to be able to
examine the audio stream in detail
so you can draw it on the screen.
So to do that in AV Foundation,
you use a class called AV Asset Reader,
which was available starting
in iOS 4.1 and is now available
on the desktop in Lion.
And the way that it works is
you hook it up to an AV asset,
which could be a movie file on disk,
and then it will decode the data in
that and give it to you piece by piece,
so that you can work with it.
And AV Asset Reader is an offline tool
to be used for doing offline processing.
The next thing you might want to
do if you have a graphical game,
then you want to take
a segment of the game,
a sequence of gameplay and record it
to a movie file so you can play it back
later and relive that great game moment.
What you'll want to use is
another class from AV Foundation,
AV Asset Reader's counterpart
called AV Asset Writer.
And the way this works is you'll take
your rendered frames from your game
and you'll push it into an AV Asset
Writer which will compress them and
write them out to your movie file.
Final scenario is if you want to let your
users manipulate the color in a video,
you're going to need access to the
individual pixels so that you can
change the color properties of them.
And then you want to write
the results out to a new file,
you're going to want to combine
AV Asset Reader and AV Asset Writer.
First you hook up the AV Asset Reader
to your movie so that you can read
out your uncompressed video frames.
Then you'll do your color
manipulation and write the new
frames out to an AV Asset Writer,
which will compress them to your file.
So that's the basics of what we
can do in a general overview.
So now let's dive deeper into the actual
reading from assets with AV Asset Reader.
So recall these simple use cases,
drawing an audio waveform
or decoding video frames so
you can mess with the color.
So to zoom in on the waveform
scenario a little bit,
the way the classes are laid out.
You have an AV Asset Reader.
You have an AV Asset,
which will represent your movie file.
And the AV Asset has a single
audio AV Asset track within it.
And you want to be able to
decode the data in that track and
get PCM out on the other side.
If you're not familiar with PCM,
it's basically just an
uncompressed audio format.
If you imagine the wave of the
actual audio that's happening,
it's just the raw values that we
sample when we record that audio.
and to actually do that decoding,
you use a class called
AV Asset Reader Track Output,
which you can hook up
to your AV Asset Reader.
If you go to the pixel
filtering scenario,
you'll have a video track,
an AV asset track with
compressed video in it,
and you want to decode that
to get your decoded frames.
And the decoding is done by AV asset
reader track output once again.
But then say you also
have an audio track,
and although you're filtering
the color in the video frames,
you just want to keep
the audio track as it is.
You can also read those samples out
with AV asset reader track output,
but configure it so that it just passes
through the samples as they're stored
in the asset without decoding them.
And in this case,
you'll get AAC audio if that's how
the audio is stored in the asset.
So when you have multiple tracks,
are there any rules on how
you can choose those tracks?
Well, there are.
All the tracks for a single
AV asset reader operation
must come from the same asset.
If you want to combine
tracks from multiple assets,
you should use an AV composition.
And since AV composition
is a subclass of AV asset,
as Sam mentioned earlier,
you can feed that into an AV asset
reader and read out your decoded samples.
So let's talk more about how
you actually set them up.
There's a few simple steps.
First, you want to instantiate your
asset reader using a reference
to the asset that you're reading.
Then you want to create your track
output within a reference to the
track that you're going to read from,
in this case,
this audio track for the waveform,
and also an NSDictionary of
output settings,
which we'll talk about
more in a little bit.
And then you can connect them
with the add output method.
And then you want to
do some configuration.
In this case,
we're telling the asset reader
that we only want to read out the
first five seconds of the asset.
And then you start reading.
And this is your commit point.
And after this,
no more configuration is allowed.
And you really just need to
focus on your reading of the
actual audio and video data,
which you usually do in a loop.
And inside that loop,
you'll read each piece of audio
or video data using the copy
next sample buffer method.
And that will give you an
instance of CM sample buffer,
which is the data type we
use for representing media,
whether it's audio, video,
or another media type.
Then if you got a valid
non-null sample buffer,
you do something with it.
In the waveform case,
you'll extract your PCM values and
draw your waveform up to that point.
And then don't forget to release your
sample buffer when you're done with it.
Now, copy next sample buffer
can also return null.
And this could mean one of two things.
Either you've finished reading
all of the... ...the buffers for
the time range that you selected.
Or an error occurred that prevented
you from reading any more buffers.
And to distinguish between these cases,
you can query the status
property on AVAssetReader.
So now let's talk more about
those output settings that we had.
Output settings, as I said,
are represented as an
NSDictionary of key value pairs.
And what you're doing with the
output settings is telling the
asset reader the format that you
want to receive the buffers in,
the audio and video buffers,
...when you're reading the data.
And it decodes them
and gives them to you.
So for this example, for audio,
we have linear PCM,
32-bit floating point,
using the keys you see on the screen.
These keys and more are
declared in AVAudioSettings.h.
On the video side, remember,
Asset Reader is always
doing decompression.
To specify the format that we want
of the decompressed video frames,
we use pixel buffer
attributes from Core Video.
And although these keys
are from Core Video,
AVVideoSettings.h is where we want to
go to get more information on how to
construct them for AV Asset Reader.
In addition, your choice of pixel format,
here we use 32-bit ARGB,
which is convenient
for manipulating color.
Your choice of pixel format might be
influenced by the platform you're on,
iOS versus desktop,
or it might be influenced
by the format of the encoded
media that you are decoding.
So for more information about how
to choose a good pixel format,
see avassetreaderoutput.h.
[Transcript missing]
Then you're going to append your samples.
The append sample buffer method
of AV Asset Writer input is
the method you use to do this.
And finally, as a last step,
you're going to tell the Asset
Writer to finish up writing the file,
make sure it flushes out
any queued samples it has,
and tell you whether
it succeeded or failed.
So now we'll talk more about those two
things that I sort of glossed over.
First, the sessions.
So imagine that you have a group of audio
samples and a group of video samples,
but the start and end times don't quite
line up like we have in this example.
It's important to keep in mind
that anything that you append
to the Asset Writer will get
written to your output file.
And by default,
if you play that file back,
it'll all get played back.
You'll see all the video
and hear all the audio.
But if you've ever seen a movie that
has a few frames of video with silence
until the audio starts in abruptly,
you know how distracting that could be.
So usually we want to have a
clean start and end where the
audio and video are matched up.
So you can do that with AV Asset Writer
by calling startSessionAtSourceTime,
and that will give the Asset Writer
a place to start the presentation.
It's a good idea to give it a
time that is the beginning of a
video frame that also lines up
with a segment of audio data.
And the grayed out part of the
audio sample here will still be
in the file that gets written,
but, you know, you just won't hear it
when you play it back.
You'll get a clean start
where both the audio and the
video start at the same time.
And you can do the same thing at the
end using endSessionAtSourceTime.
So then we'll talk about the
output settings for compression,
which is a little bit different
than the output settings that
we use for the Asset Reader.
So here we have an example dictionary.
These keys also come
from AVAudioSettings.h.
And here we have AAC,
128 kilobits per second,
and 44.1 kilohertz.
On the video side, we're going to look to
AVVideoSettings.h once again,
but we'll use keys that
are actually in that file.
In this example,
we have H.264 at 640 by 480.
Now, H.264, as most of you know,
is a great choice for most
consumer applications.
If you want to integrate with
a professional video workflow,
AVAsset Writer also supports compressing
to two different flavors of Apple ProRes.
Apple ProRes 422 and Apple ProRes 420.
Both of which give you
excellent video fidelity.
For more information about ProRes,
as well as a link to a white paper,
you can go visit the link on this slide.
So that's the basics of AV Asset Writer,
how you configure it, how you use it.
And at this point,
we need to think a little bit about where
our audio and video data is coming from.
Because that's going to have an
impact on how we use the Asset Writer
and how the Asset Writer behaves.
So you might be getting your audio
and video data from an offline source
like AV Asset Reader or maybe from
a real-time source like AV Capture.
Similarly, you might have a pull
model or a push model.
And all these things influence
how you use AV Asset Writer.
But before we get into the differences,
we need to talk a little bit
and understand how AV Asset
Writer wants to lay out the data
that it writes to the files.
So you have a choice when you have
an audio track and a video track.
You need to make a choice on how
you're going to lay those out in the
resulting file relative to each other.
One way you can do it is very simple.
You can just take the entire video track
and then write the entire audio track.
And this would work.
And you see in the diagram
we have subscripts to
indicate times that match up.
So we want to display V1
and A1 at the same time,
V1 and A2 at the same time, and so on.
But the problem here is that the
corresponding video and audio samples
are really far apart from each other.
So if we want to read the file
while we're playing it back,
in order to keep the audio
and the video synced up,
we're going to have to
jump back and forth between
these two tracks constantly.
This is very inefficient,
and it's even worse if you're trying to
download and play back from a network.
A better way would be
to mix them together.
We call this audio-video interleaving,
and you just basically do one segment
of video with one segment of audio,
one segment of video, and so on.
And this is much more efficient
because the video and the audio
that's supposed to be played at the
same time are much closer together,
so we don't have to jump
around when we're playing back,
when we're reading through the file.
And so the thing to remember about
AV Asset Writer is it's always
going to try to do this audio/video
interleaving thing to make sure
that when you play this file back,
you get the most efficient
I/O pattern that you can.
So this works well,
but how does it achieve this?
After all, you're the one who is writing
your video data and writing your
audio data at your own leisure,
if you want.
Well, it uses this property called
Ready For More Media Data on the
Asset Writer input to try and
balance out how frequently you're
appending data to each input.
And we'll illustrate
it with this diagram.
In the middle,
we have an Asset Writer with an
audio input and a video input.
And at the bottom,
we have an empty file that
we'll be writing data to.
And imagine for this example
that the ideal interleaving
pattern is just one audio sample,
then one video sample,
then one audio sample, and so on.
It's not quite how it works in real life,
but it's close enough
to illustrate the point.
So as we're going through,
we're going to be
receiving audio data in.
We're going to ask the
input if it's ready.
It'll say yes,
so we can go ahead and append.
And we'll have a video frame come in,
and that input's ready,
so we're able to append that.
But then imagine that your audio starts
coming in faster than your video.
Now, AVAsset Writer wants to maintain
this ideal interleaving pattern,
and so it's going to tell you to hold off
a little bit until more video comes in.
And so your video comes in,
and it'll let you append that.
And then that'll unblock your
audio input and you can add
more data to that and move on.
So this works quite well.
But then you might be wondering,
what's the best way to keep track
of when your inputs are ready
for data and when they're not?
Well, the answer depends on whether
you're using a pull model
source or a push model source.
So if you're using a pull model source,
like AVAsset Reader,
generally what you're doing is
you request each piece of data
individually when you're ready for it.
So what we let you do,
we provide an API called Request
Media Data When Ready that will let the
asset writer tell you exactly when it's
ready for more media data so that you
can go and pull another chunk to append.
And the way this API works is you give
it a block that it's going to call back
any time that the value of ready for more
media data transitions from no to yes.
And inside the block,
you'll generally want to loop and
append samples until your input is
no longer ready for more media data.
So inside that loop,
we'll grab our sample buffer,
possibly from our asset reader.
We'll go ahead and append
it using AppendSampleBuffer.
But the last thing to keep in mind
is what happens when you run out of,
say, when you run out of audio to append?
Now it's important that you tell the
asset writer that you have no more
data to append to a certain input,
because in its efforts to balance out how
you're appending audio and video data,
it might be holding off letting
you append more video data
until you get more audio.
And if you have no more audio and you
don't tell the asset writer anything,
the whole process might stall out.
So you want to call the
method markIsFinished,
and that'll tell the asset writer not
to expect any more data in that input.
So things are a little
different for a push model.
In a push model,
generally what's going to
happen is you're periodically
going to get a callback.
In this case,
we have an example of the AV Captures
Data Output Sample Buffer method,
which is the delegate method
that you use with AV capture
audio or video data output.
And this is typical of
a push model source,
where it's just going to give you
a callback and hand you a buffer,
and you have to do something with it
quickly before the next one comes in.
So in this case,
we recommend that you just append
your sample right then and there,
do any processing you need to do,
and then append it without any delay.
Now you notice that we still check the
value of ready for more media data,
because it's possible that we are
in a push model source that we're
being pushed data faster than the
asset writer can actually process,
compress, and write to the file.
and Adam Sarkozy.
So if this is happening,
it's tempting that you would want to
do your own queuing where you save
off the buffers and you wait and
you hold on to them until your input
is once again ready for more data.
We recommend that you don't do this.
First of all,
I'll let you in on a little secret.
AV Asset Writer is doing
queuing on your behalf.
So queuing on top of queuing isn't
going to buy you a whole lot.
It's usually not necessary
for most use cases.
It's error prone and it typically
will just hide the real problem that
you're just producing data too fast
and the Asset Writer can't keep up.
So instead, we recommend that you drop
some video frames in the short
term in order to catch up.
You don't want to drop audio
because then you might lose AV sync.
And if possible,
try to go and throttle down the
rate at which you are producing
those video frames to avoid
overwhelming the Asset Writer further.
An example of how you can do that
is if you do that with AV Capture,
there's a property that lets
you set a maximum frame rate
for your audio -- sorry,
your video data output.
So that's a good story
for push model sources,
but a lot of push model sources
are also operate in real time.
And AV Capture is an example of that.
And with a real time source,
the time constraints for how much time
you have to deal with each piece of
audio or video data is even stricter.
And with these additional constraints.
Although interleaving in the output
file is always important to make sure
you get good playback I/O efficiency,
even more important is making sure
that we can capture as much of the data
coming at us and get it written out
to the file so we don't lose any data.
In addition, in a real-time scenario,
the interleaving will generally be OK,
even if we don't do much
to try and manage it,
because the audio and the video are
coming in at about the same time.
And so if the asset writer knows that the
data is coming from a real-time source,
it can focus less on micromanaging
the interleaving and give you
an opportunity to keep the
gates open for appending data.
And what that means concretely
is that ready for more media
data will be yes a lot more often
for your real-time scenario.
And the way that you tell asset
writer this is you use this
property on the asset writer input,
expects media data in real-time.
And you want to set this to yes
for all of your inputs that are
getting data from a real-time source.
So that's the basics of Asset
Writer and Asset Reader.
We've talked a lot about what
they're good for and how to use them,
but we should really also talk
about when you shouldn't use them,
because sometimes there's
a better tool for the job.
As I mentioned before,
AV Asset Reader's not for playback or
any sort of other real-time scenario.
It's just for offline grabbing
samples from an asset and
doing your offline processing.
Also,
if you're just doing a simple transcode
or an export where you just want to
write your file in a different format,
AV Asset Export Session will
typically be better suited to that
task as well as being easier to use.
Similarly,
if you just want to do a capture
and write all of that capture from
a camera or a microphone and get
that written out to a movie file,
then AV Capture Movie File Output
is going to be the better
tool to use for that.
So, let's sum up.
Sam and I have talked about a lot
of different APIs today that fill
a lot of different editing tasks.
So, let's just go through
them to review one by one.
First, if you want to create
an image for a time,
use AV Asset Image Generator.
If you want to output a movie,
maybe in a different format,
you use AV Asset Export Session.
If you want to combine multiple clips,
you use AV Composition.
For audio volume adjustments,
you use AV Audio Mix.
For video transitions,
you use AV Video Composition.
If you want to incorporate core
animation into your presentations,
you use either AV Synchronized Layer for
playback or AV Video Composition
Core Animation Tool for
export and offline operations.
If you want to read audio and
video data from your assets,
you use AV Asset Reader.
And finally, if you want to create a new
movie file with your data,
then you use AV Asset Writer.
And there's an additional piece of sample
code available that's not quite up yet,
but it should be up tomorrow morning.
And it's called -- it covers
AV Asset Reader and AV Asset Writer,
and it's called, quite simply,
AV Reader Writer.
So look for that in the morning.
For more information,
there's documentation.
We have a programming guide,
and you can get to it at this URL.
As usual,
you can use the Apple Developer Forums
to ask questions and get them answered.
And you can also contact our
Media Technologies Evangelist,
Eric Version.
There were a few sessions
that happened yesterday.
If you didn't catch them,
then you can catch them on the
videos when those become available.
There's also two more capture
sessions right in this room
for the rest of the afternoon.
So if you want to learn about
capture on both Lion and iOS 5,
stick around right here.
So thank you very much for coming.
Have a great rest of your afternoon
and go write some great editing
applications with AV Foundation.